================================
Wagtailmenus 2.0.0 release notes
================================

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 1


What's new?
===========

New ``use_specific`` and ``max_levels`` fields for menu models
--------------------------------------------------------------

`MainMenu` and `FlatMenu` models now have two new fields: 

- ``use_specific``: To allow the default ``use_specific`` setting when rendering that menu to be changed via the Wagtail CMS. 
- ``max_levels``: To allow the  default `max_levels` setting when rendering that menu to be changed via the admin area. 

**Find the field in the collapsed ADVANCED SETTINGS panel at the bottom of the edit form**


More ``use_specific`` options available
---------------------------------------

The ``use_specific`` menu tag argument can now be one of 4 integer values, 
allowing for more fine-grained control over the use of ``Page.specific`` and ``PageQuerySet.specific()`` when rendering menu tags.

Developers not using the ``MenuPage`` model or overriding any of wagtail's
``Page` methods involved in URL generation can now enjoy better performance by
choosing not to fetch any specific pages at all during rendering. Simply pass ``use_specific=USE_SPECIFIC_OFF`` or ``use_specific=0`` to the tag, or update the ``use_specific`` field value on your ``MainMenu`` or ``FlatMenu`` objects via
the Wagtail admin area.


Basic argument validation added to template tags
------------------------------------------------

The ``max_levels``, ``use_specific``, ``parent_page`` and ``menuitem_or_page`` 
arguments passed to all template tags are now checked to ensure their values
are valid, and if not, raise a ``ValueError`` with a helpful message to aid
debugging.


Upgrade considerations
======================


Dropped features
----------------

-   Dropped support for the ``WAGTAILMENUS_DEFAULT_MAIN_MENU_MAX_LEVELS`` and 
    ``WAGTAILMENUS_DEFAULT_FLAT_MENU_MAX_LEVELS`` settings. Default values are now set using the ``max_levels`` field on the menu objects themselves.

-   Dropped support for the ``WAGTAILMENUS_DEFAULT_MAIN_MENU_USE_SPECIFIC`` 
    and ``WAGTAILMENUS_DEFAULT_FLAT_MENU_USE_SPECFIC`` settings. Default values are now set using the ``use_specific`` field on the menu objects themselves.

-   The ``has_submenu_items()`` method on ``MenuPage`` no longer accepts the
    `check_for_children` argument.

-   The ``modify_submenu_items()`` and ``has_submenu_items()`` methods on the 
    ``MenuPage`` model now both accept an optional ``menu_instance`` keyword argument.

-   Added the ``WAGTAILMENUS_ADD_EDITOR_OVERRIDE_STYLES`` setting to allow
    override styles to be disabled.


Run migrations after updating!
------------------------------

New fields have been added to ``MainMenu`` and ``FlatMenu`` models, so you'll need to run the migrations for those. Run the following:

.. code-block:: console

    django manage.py migrate wagtailmenus


Setting ``max_levels`` and ``use_specific`` on your existing menus
------------------------------------------------------------------

Edit your existing ``MainMenu`` and ``FlatMenu`` objects via the Wagtail CMS. 

You should see a new collapsed **ADVANCED SETTINGS** panel at the bottom of 
each form, where both of these fields live.

Default values for ``MainMenu`` are ``max_levels=2`` and ``use_specific=1``.

Default values for ``FlatMenu`` are ``max_levels=1`` and ``use_specific=1``.


Switch to using the new ``use_specific`` options
------------------------------------------------

If you're passing ``use_specific=True`` or ``use_specific=False`` to the any
of the menu tags, you'll need to change that to one of the following:

- ``use_specific=USE_SPECIFIC_OFF`` (or ``use_specific=0``)
- ``use_specific=USE_SPECIFIC_AUTO`` (or ``use_specific=1``)
- ``use_specific=USE_SPECIFIC_TOP_LEVEL`` (or ``use_specific=2``)
- ``use_specific=USE_SPECIFIC_ALWAYS`` (or ``use_specific=3``)

See the following section of the README for further info: https://github.com/jazzband/wagtailmenus/blob/v2.0.0/README.md#using-menupage


Changes to ``MenuPage.has_submenu_items()`` and ``MenuPage.modify_submenu_items()``
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you're extending these methods on your custom page types, you will likely need to make a few changes. 

Firstly, the ``check_for_children`` argument is no longer supplied to ``has_submenu_items()``, and is will no longer be accepted as a value.

Secondly, both the ``modify_submenu_items()`` and ``has_submenu_items()`` methods both accept an optional ``menu_instance`` argument, which you'll need to also accept.

See the updated section of the README for corrected code examples:
https://github.com/jazzband/wagtailmenus/blob/v2.0.0/README.md#11-manipulating-sub-menu-items-for-specific-page-types


Adding the ``context_processor`` to settings 
--------------------------------------------

If you're upgrading from wagtailmenus version ``1.5.1`` or lower, you'll need to update your settings to include a context_processor from wagtailmenus. Your ``TEMPLATES`` setting should look something like the example below:

.. code-block:: python

    TEMPLATES = [
        {
            'BACKEND': 'django.template.backends.django.DjangoTemplates',
            'DIRS': [
                os.path.join(PROJECT_ROOT, 'templates'),
            ],
            'APP_DIRS': True,
            'OPTIONS': {
                'context_processors': [
                    'django.contrib.auth.context_processors.auth',
                    'django.template.context_processors.debug',
                    'django.template.context_processors.i18n',
                    'django.template.context_processors.media',
                    'django.template.context_processors.request',
                    'django.template.context_processors.static',
                    'django.template.context_processors.tz',
                    'django.contrib.messages.context_processors.messages',
                    'wagtail.contrib.settings.context_processors.settings',
                    'wagtailmenus.context_processors.wagtailmenus',
                ],
            },
        },
    ]
