=======================================
Wagtailmenus 2.10 (alpha) release notes
=======================================

.. NOTE ::
    
    Wagtailmenus 2.10 is in the alpha stage of development. Any changes
    detailed below are subject to change before the final 2.10 release.


.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 1


Minor changes & bug fixes 
=========================

- Optimised ``MenuWithMenuItems.get_top_level_items()`` and ``AbstractFlatMenu.get_for_site()`` to use fewer database queries.
- Configured ``sphinxcontrib.spelling`` and used to correct spelling errors in docs.
- Updated testing and documentation dependencies.


Deprecations
============


The ``wagtailmenus.app_settings`` module is deprecated
------------------------------------------------------

If you're importing this in your project from it's previous location, you should update the import statements in your code to use the new import path.

So, instead of:

.. code-block:: python

    from wagtailmenus import app_settings

Do:

.. code-block:: python

    from wagtailmenus.conf import settings


The ``wagtailmenus.constants`` module is deprecated
---------------------------------------------------

If you're importing this in your project from it's previous location, you should update the import statements in your code to use the new import path. 

So, instead of:

.. code-block:: python

    from wagtailmenus import constants

Do:

.. code-block:: python

    from wagtailmenus.conf import constants


The ``WAGTAILMENUS_CHILDREN_MENU_CLASS_PATH`` setting is deprecated
-------------------------------------------------------------------

If you're using this in your project's settings to override the menu class used for rendering children menus, you'll want to change this:

.. code-block:: python

    # settings/base.py

    WAGTAILMENUS_CHILDREN_MENU_CLASS_PATH = 'project.app.module.Class'

To this (without the "_PATH" on the end):

.. code-block:: python

    WAGTAILMENUS_CHILDREN_MENU_CLASS = 'project.app.module.Class'


The ``WAGTAILMENUS_SECTION_MENU_CLASS_PATH`` setting is deprecated
------------------------------------------------------------------

If you're using this in your project's settings to override the menu class used for rendering section menus, you'll want to change this:

.. code-block:: python

    # settings/base.py

    WAGTAILMENUS_SECTION_MENU_CLASS_PATH = 'project.app.module.Class'

To this (without the "_PATH" on the end):

.. code-block:: python

    WAGTAILMENUS_SECTION_MENU_CLASS = 'project.app.module.Class'


Upgrade considerations
======================


``FLAT_MENU_MODEL_CLASS`` has been removed from app settings
------------------------------------------------------------

If you're referencing ``FLAT_MENU_MODEL_CLASS`` directly from wagtailmenus' app settings module, your code may no longer work.

If you only need the 'model string' for the model (for example, to use in a 
``ForeignKey`` or ``ManyToManyField`` field definition), you should use
``wagtailmenus.get_flat_menu_model_string()`` instead.

If you need the Django model class itself, use ``wagtailmenus.get_flat_menu_model()``.


``MAIN_MENU_MODEL_CLASS`` has been removed from app settings
------------------------------------------------------------

If you're referencing ``MAIN_MENU_MODEL_CLASS`` directly from wagtailmenus' app settings module, your code may no longer work.

If you only need the 'model string' for the model (for example, to use in a 
``ForeignKey`` or ``ManyToManyField`` field definition), you should use
``wagtailmenus.get_main_menu_model_string()`` instead.

If you need the Django model class itself, use ``wagtailmenus.get_main_menu_model()``.
