===============================
Wagtailmenus 2.11 release notes
===============================s

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 1


What's new?
===========


Replace the ``ModelAdmin`` classes used by wagtailmenus with your own
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously, the only way to override any of the admin functionality within wagtailmenus was to resort to monkey-patching, which is obviously not ideal.

I wanted to provide a documented, officially supported way to do this, by allowing the default ``wagtail.contrib.modelamin.ModelAdmin`` classes in wagtailmenus to be swapped out for custom ones with settings.

For more information see the new entries in the settings reference docs:

- :ref:`FLAT_MENUS_MODELADMIN_CLASS`
- :ref:`MAIN_MENUS_MODELADMIN_CLASS`


Minor changes & bug fixes 
=========================

- Added support for Wagtail version 2.1.
- Added new 'Wagtail' trove classifiers in ``setup.py`` to reflect Wagtail version support.
- Updated ``runtests.py`` to pass on any unparsed option arguments to Django's test method.
- Updated ``runtests.py`` to filter out deprecation warnings originating from other apps by default. 
- Updated ``MenuItem.relative_url()`` to accept a ``request`` parameter (for parity with ``wagtail.core.models.Page.relative_url()``), so that it can pass it on to the page method.
- Updated ``Menu.prime_menu_items()`` to send the current ``HttpRequest`` to that ``MenuItem.relative_url()`` and ``Page.relative_url()``.
- Moved most 'App settings related' tests to `wagtailmenus.conf.tests`, so that they're all in one place.
- Updated admin views to utilise ``wagtail.admin.messages.validation_error()`` for reporting field-specific and non-field errors (Wagtail 2.1 has this built-in, but Wagtail 2.0 does not). 
- Replaced the custom app settings module with a ``django-cogwheels`` settings helper and removed a lot of the tests that existed to test its workings.
- Moved remaining app settings tests to ``wagtailmenus.conf.tests``.

Deprecations
============

- If you're using custom ``MenuItem`` models in your project, and are overriding ``relative_url()``, you should update the method signature on your custom model to accept a ``request`` keyword argument, and it on to ``link_page.relative_url()`` and ``super().relative_url()`` (in addition to ``site``) if calling either of those. This will be mandatory in wagtailmenus 1.13.


Upgrade considerations
======================

- Dropped support for Wagtail versions 1.10 to 1.13.
- Dropped support for Django versions 1.8 to 1.10.
- Menu.prime_menu_items() now returns a list instead of a generator. This is required to allow the method to raise warnings.
- Wagtailmenus' custom ``modeladmin`` classes have moved from ``wagtailmenus.wagtail_hooks`` to a new ``wagtailmenus.modeladmin`` module. Importing ``FlatMenuAdmin`` or ``MainMenuAdmin`` from the `wagtail_hooks` will still continue to work, but any references to ``wagtailmenus.wagtail_hooks.FlatMenuButtonHelper`` will need to be updated.
- If for any reason you are importing view classes directly from ``wagtailmenus.wagtail_hooks``, that will no longer work. You will have to update your code to import view classes from the views module itself (``wagtailmenus.views``).
