===============================
Wagtailmenus 2.13 release notes
===============================

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 1


What's new?
===========

There are no new major features in this release.


Minor changes & bug fixes
=========================

- Added support for Wagtail 2.3.
- Added support for Wagtail 2.4.
- Added support for Django 2.1.
- Minor documentation updates (OktayAltay).
- Updated ``MenuPage.get_repeated_menu_item()`` to nullify ``sub_menu`` on the copy to reduce likelihood of infinite recursion errors.
- Updated ``Menu._prime_menu_item()`` to set ``sub_menu`` to None if no new value is being added, to reduce likelihood of infinite recursion errors.
- Updated ``SectionMenu.prepare_to_render()`` to augment ``root_page`` with ``text``, ``href`` and ``active_class`` attributes, so that it no longer has to be done in ``SectionMenu.get_context_data()``.
- Updated ``AbstractLinkPage.get_sitemap_urls()`` signature to match Wagtail 2.2 (Dan Bentley).
- Documentation typo correction and other improvements (DanAtShenTech).
- Fix an issue where the ``WAGTAILMENUS_USE_CONDENSEDINLINEPANEL`` setting wasn't being respected.


Deprecations
============

None


Upgrade considerations
======================

Following a standard deprecation period a two minor releases, the following functionality has now been removed.


``relative_url()`` methods must accept a ``request`` keyword argument
---------------------------------------------------------------------

If you're using custom ``MenuItem`` models in your project, and are overriding ``relative_url()``, you should update the signature on your custom model method to accept a ``request`` keyword argument, and pass it on to ``link_page.relative_url()`` and ``super().relative_url()`` (in addition to ``site``) if calling either of those from.
