================================
Wagtailmenus 2.3.0 release notes
================================

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 2


What's new?
===========


Introducing the ``AbstractLinkPage`` model!
-------------------------------------------

The newly added ``AbstractLinkPage`` model can be easily sub-classed and used
in projects to create 'link pages' that act in a similar fashion to menu items
when appearing in menus, but can be placed in any part of the page tree.

`Find out more about this feature <https://github.com/jazzband/wagtailmenus#using-the-abstractlinkpage-model>`_


Introducing the ``MenuPageMixin`` model!
----------------------------------------

Most of the functionality from ``MenuPage`` model has been abstracted out to a ``MenuPageMixin`` model, that can more easily be mixed in to existing page type models.


MenuPage methods updated to accept ``request`` keyword argument
---------------------------------------------------------------

The ``modify_submenu_items()``, ``has_submenu_items()`` and ``get_repeated_menu_item()`` methods on ``MenuPageMixin`` / ``MenuPage`` have been updated to accept a new  `request` keyword argument, which is used to pass in the current ``HttpRequest`` that the menu is being rendered for.


All ``Menu`` classes are now 'request aware'
--------------------------------------------

A new ``set_request()`` method on all ``Menu`` classes is used to set a
``request`` attribute on the ``Menu`` instance, immediately after
initialisation, allowing you to referencing ``self.request`` from most methods 
to access the current ``HttpRequest`` object 


Added ``get_base_page_queryset()`` method to all ``Menu`` classes
-----------------------------------------------------------------

That can be overridden to change the base ``QuerySet`` used when identifying
pages to be included in a menu when rendering. For example developers could use ``self.request.user`` to only ever include pages that the current user has some
permissions for.
 

Overridable menu classes for ``section_menu`` and ``children_menu`` tags
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Added the ``WAGTAILMENUS_SECTION_MENU_CLASS_PATH`` setting, which can be used
to override the ``Menu`` class used when using the ``{% section_menu %}`` tag.

Added the ``WAGTAILMENUS_CHILDREN_MENU_CLASS_PATH`` setting, which can be used
to override the ``Menu`` class used when using the ``{% children_menu %}`` tag.


Other minor changes
-------------------

- Added wagtail 1.10 and django 1.11 test environments to tox
- Renamed ``test_frontend.py`` to ``test_menu_rendering.py``
- In situations where ``request.site`` hasn't been set by wagtail's ``SiteMiddleware``, the wagtailmenus context processor will now use the default site to generate menus with.
- Updated ``AbstractMenuItem.clean()`` to only ever return field-specific validation errors, because Wagtail doesn't render non-field errors for related models added to the editor interface using ``InlinePanel``.
- Refactored ``runtest.py`` to accept a ``deprecation`` argument that can be used to surface deprecation warnings that arise when running tests.
- Added Russian translations (submitted by Alex @einsfr).


Upgrade considerations
======================

Several methods on the ``MenuPage`` model have been updated to accept a 
``request`` parameter. If you're upgrading to version ``2.3.0`` from a previous
version, it's not necessary to make any changes immediately in order for
wagtailmenus to work, but if you're using the ``MenuPage`` class in your
project, and are overriding any of the following methods:

- ``modify_submenu_items()``
- ``has_submenu_items()``
- ``get_repeated_menu_item()``

Then you should think about updating the signatures of those methods to accept
the new argument and pass it through when calling ``super()``. See the
following code for an example:

.. code-block:: python

    from wagtailmenus.models import MenuPage


    class ContactPage(MenuPage):
        ...

        def modify_submenu_items(
            self, menu_items, current_page, current_ancestor_ids, 
            current_site, allow_repeating_parents, apply_active_classes,
            original_menu_tag, menu_instance, request
        ):
            # Apply default modifications first of all
            menu_items = super(ContactPage, self).modify_submenu_items(
                menu_items, current_page, current_ancestor_ids, current_site, allow_repeating_parents, apply_active_classes, original_menu_tag,
                menu_instance, request)
            """
            If rendering a 'main_menu', add some additional menu items to the end
            of the list that link to various anchored sections on the same page
            """
            if original_menu_tag == 'main_menu':
                base_url = self.relative_url(current_site)
                """
                Additional menu items can be objects with the necessary attributes,
                or simple dictionaries. `href` is used for the link URL, and `text`
                is the text displayed for each link. Below, I've also used
                `active_class` to add some additional CSS classes to these items,
                so that I can target them with additional CSS  
                """
                menu_items.extend((
                    {
                        'text': 'Get support',
                        'href': base_url + '#support',
                        'active_class': 'support',
                    },
                    {
                        'text': 'Speak to someone',
                        'href': base_url + '#call',
                        'active_class': 'call',
                    },
                    {
                        'text': 'Map & directions',
                        'href': base_url + '#map',
                        'active_class': 'map',
                    },
                ))
            return menu_items

        def has_submenu_items(
            self, current_page, allow_repeating_parents, original_menu_tag, 
            menu_instance, request
        ):
            """
            Because `modify_submenu_items` is being used to add additional menu
            items, we need to indicate in menu templates that `ContactPage` objects
            do have submenu items in main menus, even if they don't have children
            pages.
            """
            if original_menu_tag == 'main_menu':
                return True
            return super(ContactPage, self).has_submenu_items(
                current_page, allow_repeating_parents, original_menu_tag,
                menu_instance, request)

 If you choose NOT to update your versions of those methods to accept the 
 ``request`` keyword argument, you will continue to see deprecation warnings
 until version ``2.5.0``, when it will be a requirement, and your existing code
 will no longer work.
