=================================
Wagtailmenus 2.6.0a release notes
=================================

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 1


.. NOTE ::
    
    Wagtailmenus 2.6 is designated a Long Term Support (LTS) release. Long Term Support releases will continue to receive maintenance updates as necessary to address security and data-loss related issues, up until the next LTS release (for at least 8 months). 

.. NOTE ::

    Wagtailmenus 2.6 will be the last LTS release to support Python 2.

.. NOTE ::

    Wagtailmenus 2.6 will be the last LTS release to support Wagtail versions 1.5 to 1.9.


What's new?
===========

Improved compatibility with alternative template backends
---------------------------------------------------------

Wagtailmenus has been updated to use backend-specific templates for rendering, making it compatible with template backends other than Django's default backend (such as ``jinja2``).

Although the likelihood of this new behavior introducing breaking changes to projects is minute, it is turned **OFF** by default for now, in order to give developers time to make any necessary changes. However, by version 2.8 the updated behaviour will replace the old behaviour completely, becoming non optional.

To start using wagtailmenus with an alternative backend now (or to test your project's compatibility in advance), you can turn the updated behaviour **ON** by adding the following to your project's settings:

.. code:: python

    WAGTAILMENUS_USE_BACKEND_SPECIFIC_TEMPLATES = True

Thank you to Nguyễn Hồng Quân (hongquan) for contributing this!


New tabbed interface for menu editing
-------------------------------------

In an effort to improve the menu editing UI, Wagtail's ``TabbedInterface`` is now used to split a menu's fields into two tabs for editig: **Content** and **Settings**; with the latter including panels for the ``max_levels`` and ``use_specific`` fields (which were previously tucked away at the bottom of the edit page), and the former for everything else.

Two new attributes, ``content_panels`` and ``settings_panels`` have also been added to ``AbstractMainMenu`` and ``AbstractFlatMenu`` to allow the panels for each tab to be updated independently.

If for any reason you don't wish to use the tabbed interface for editing custom menu models, the ``panels`` attribute is still supported, and will setting that will result in all fields appearing in a single list (as before). However, the ``panels`` attribute currently present on the ``AbstractFlatMenu`` and ``AbstractMainMenu`` models is now deprecated and will be removed in the future releases (see below for more info).


Built-in compatibility with ``wagtail-condensedinlinepanel``
------------------------------------------------------------

In an effort to improve the menu editing UI, wagtailmenus now has baked-in compatibility with ``wagtail-condensedinlinepanel``. As long as a compatible version (at least `0.3`) of the app is installed, wagtailmenus will automatically use ``CondensedInlinePanel`` instead of Wagtail's built-in ``InlinePanel`` for listing menu items, giving menu editors some excellent additional features, including drag-and-drop reordering and the ability to add a new item into any position.

If you have custom Menu models in your project that use the ``panels`` attribute to customise arrangement of fields in the editing UI, you might need to change the your panel list slightly in order to see the improved menu items list after installing. Where you might currently have something like:

.. code:: python

    class CustomMainMenu(AbstractMainMenu):
        ...

        panels = (
            ...
            InlinePanel('custom_menu_items'),
            ..
        )


    class CustomFlatMenu(AbstractFlatMenu):
        ...

        panels = (
            ...
            InlinePanel('custom_menu_items'),
            ..
        )

You should import ``MainMenuItemsInlinePanel`` and ``FlatMenuItemsInlinePanel`` from ``wagtailmenus.panels`` and use them instead like so:


.. code:: python

    from wagtailmenus.panels import FlatMenuItemsInlinePanel, MainMenuItemsInlinePanel


    class CustomMainMenu(AbstractMainMenu):
        ...

        panels = (
            ...
            MainMenuItemsInlinePanel(),  # no need to pass any arguments!
            ..
        )


    class CustomFlatMenu(AbstractFlatMenu):
        ...

        panels = (
            ...
            FlatMenuItemsInlinePanel(),  # no need to pass any arguments!
            ..
        )


Minor changes & bug fixes 
=========================

- Updated tests to test compatibility with Wagtail 1.13.


Deprecations
============

``Menu.get_template_engine()``
------------------------------

This method is deprecated in favour of using Django's generic 'get_template' and 'select_template' methods, which return backend-specific template instances instead of `django.template.Template` instances.


``AbstractMainMenu.panels`` and ``AbstractFlatMenu.panels``
-----------------------------------------------------------

If you are referencing ``AbstractMainMenu.panels`` or ``AbstractFlatMenu.panels`` anywhere, you should update your code to reference the ``content_panels`` or ``settings_panels`` attribute instead, depending on which panels you're trying to make use of. 

If you're overriding the ``panels`` attribute on a custom menu model in order to make additional fields available in the editing UI (or change the default field display order), you might also want to think about updating your code to override the ``content_panels`` and ``settings_panels`` attributes instead, which will result in fields being split between two tabs (**Content** and **Settings**). However, this is entirely optional.


Upgrade considerations
======================

-   Following the standard deprecation period, any modify_submenu_items()
    methods implemented on custom Page type models must now accept a 'use_absolute_page_urls' keyword argument. See the 2.4 release notes for
    more info: http://wagtailmenus.readthedocs.io/en/stable/releases/2.4.0.html
