======================================
Wagtailmenus 2.7 (alpha) release notes
======================================

.. NOTE ::
    
    Wagtailmenus 2.7 is in the alpha stage of development. Any changes
    detailed below are subject to change before the final 2.7 release.


.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 1


What's new?
===========

TBA


Minor changes & bug fixes 
=========================

Various 'Python 3 only' code optimisations:

- Removed __future__ unicode handling imports throughout.
- Replaced 'old style' class definitions with 'new style' ones.
- Simplified super() syntax throughout to the cleaner Python 3 implementation.
- Fixed deprecation warnings pertaining to use of ``TestCase.assertRaisesRegexp``.


Deprecations
============

TBA


Upgrade considerations
======================

- This version is compatible with Python 3.4 or later only.
- This version is compatible with Wagtail 1.10 or later only.
- This version is compatible with Django 1.8 or later only.

Following the standard deprecation period, the following classes, methods and
behaviour has been removed:

-   The ``wagtailmenus.models.menus.MenuFromRootPage`` class was removed.
-   The ``__init__()`` method of ``wagtailmenus.models.menus.ChildrenMenu`` no
    longer accepts a **root_page** keyword argument. The parent page should be
    passed using the **parent_page** keyword instead.
-   The **root_page** attribute has been removed from the 
    ``wagtailmenus.models.menus.ChildrenMenu`` class. Use the **parent_page**
    attribute instead.
-   The ``sub_menu`` template tag no longer accepts a **stop_at_this_level**
    keyword argument.
-   The ``get_sub_menu_items_for_page()`` and ``prime_menu_items()`` methods
    have been removed from ``wagtailmenus.templatetags.menu_tags``.
-   The ``get_attrs_from_context()`` method has been removed from 
    ``wagtailmenus.utils.misc``.
-   The ``get_template_names()`` and ``get_sub_menu_template_names()`` methods
    have been removed from ``wagtailmenus.utils.template`` and the redundant
    ``wagtailmenus.utils.template`` module removed.
