===========================================
Wagtailmenus 4.0 release notes (28.02.2024)
===========================================

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 1


What's new?
===========

Wagtailmenus now uses Snippets
------------------------------

Wagtailmenus prior to this release used the Wagtail ModelAdmin contrib package for menu administration.
With the deprecation of ModelAdmin in Wagtail 5.2 and its removal in Wagtail 6, Wagtail's enhanced Snippet capability is now used for menu admin.

This release retains all the functionality of wagtailmenus 3.1.9, however the admin user interface has changed consistent with the revised look in Wagtail 5.2 and 6.
Any existing menu configuration is retained.

Upgrade considerations
======================

Migration from ModelAdmin to Snippets
-------------------------------------

The two menu administration ViewSets, ``MainMenuAdmin`` and ``FlatMenuAdmin``, are now based on ``SnippetViewSet``.

Ensure wagtail.snippets is in your INSTALLED_APPS:

.. code-block:: python

    INSTALLED_APPS = [
        ...,
        'wagtail.snippets',
        ...,
    ]

If `wagtailmenus` is your code's last dependency on `ModelAdmin`,
then you can remove `wagtail_modeladmin` or `wagtail.contrib.modeladmin` from your `INSTALLED_APPS` and if present, from your `requirements.txt` file.

Customised Admin Classes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you have customised either of ``MainMenuAdmin`` and ``FlatMenuAdmin``,
you will need to refactor your code to be compatible with ``SnippetViewSet`` behaviour.
The guide at `Migrating from ModelAdmin to Snippets <https://docs.wagtail.org/en/v5.2.3/reference/contrib/modeladmin/migrating_to_snippets.html>`_ in the Wagtail documentation may assist with this task.

You will need to assign the newly customised admin classes to the following settings:

- ``WAGTAILMENUS_MAIN_MENUS_ADMIN_CLASS``. This replaces ``WAGTAILMENUS_MAIN_MENUS_MODELADMIN_CLASS``
- ``WAGTAILMENUS_FLAT_MENUS_ADMIN_CLASS``. This replaces ``WAGTAILMENUS_FLAT_MENUS_MODELADMIN_CLASS``

Note that ``MainMenuAdmin`` and ``FlatMenuAdmin`` are now in the ``wagtailmenus.menuadmin`` module, and that the ``wagtailmenus.modeladmin`` module has been removed.
